Stop-Loss the concept of a stop loss is very simple to take profit but it is the other way around.
Its opposite actually.
So this is our market movement.
We enter into by order and we can embed a stop loss with power by order so it's an additional order
in the Forex market.
But it is linked to our by order.
So basically what it means is if the price was ever to go and reach this red level or go below it then
the buy order has to be automatically closed.
So that kind of saves you the trouble of monitoring the market and always worrying and checking if the
price is going down because you put this rule into your buy order and as soon as condition is met your
buy order will be close.
So this is the market going down against us so we would think it is going to go up but actually went
down and then bottom price crosses our Stop-Loss and the order gets close.
Of course this yields a certain loss on our account.
So at this stage you would ask why is a stop loss good and if it brings losses.
Well lets see what happens to the market.
Further down the track it goes a bit up and goes down goes up and then goes further down.
So as you can see they could have been potentially a much higher loss.
So this one or even this one so or even more than that.
And so its better to control your losses and exit exit according to your trading strategy and exit on
time rather than overweight and bear a very high loss so small losses are much better than bigger losses
and thats where your stop loss comes into play.
It helps you exit the market because what what we're doing in trading is we will always win in all of
our trades.
There will be loss losses.
Inevitably there will be losses on the card and it's all about managing those losses.
Managing those risks and getting out of the market on time.
And that's where your stop loss will help you control the losses on your account.
It's a very important feature and I highly recommend to always set a stop loss for any of your orders
.
Let's look at a stop loss for a sell order.
So a sell order.
We are anticipating a downward movement in the market.
We can set a stop loss which has to be above the entry price and that's because when we anticipate a
downward movement we will only lose if there's an upward movement.
So let's see what happens in the market goes against us and goes kind of in our favor.
But then it crosses our Stop-Loss and unfortunately there is a small loss on that account.
Let's see what happens the price going forward went up went even further up.
So if not for our stop loss we could have closed or there we could have been closed that there and there
would have been a much much greater loss on the column.
So as you can see stop losses even though they bring losses to their count but they are very very useful
and very helpful in controlling your risks and managing any potential losses on their account.
And so just a final note to finish off take profits and stop loss can and probably should be said together
.
As I said all I recommend always setting a stop loss and you can combine it with Fertik profit if you
like.
You can set both of them and attach them to one order.
Finally a word of caution.
Sometimes when the market volatility is very very high for example during market news the broker.
Your broker may not be able to execute just applause.
It is a very rare condition but sometimes happens when there is just basically no price no takers at
just Stop-Loss level or take profit level.
And what will happen then is a massive slippage can happen.
And even though how a stop loss its not a 100 percent guarantee that the order will be close is too
close.
Its probably like 90 95 percent guarantee but sometimes it does happen that an order can slip through
.
Thats an inherent risk of the Forex market.
I have to be aware of that and thats why I highly recommend having a look at my tutorials on fundamental
trading and seeing how to kind of understand when theres market movements so you dont you avoid trading
at those time.
Thats what I personally do.
I kind of stay out of the market when I know theres going to be massive movement